This is a dry wine, very spicy, with a tight, taut texture and strongly mineral character layered with citrus as well as pepper. It's a food wine with its almost crisp aftertaste.
Slightly reduced, this wine offers a chalky, tannic backbone to an otherwise juicy explosion of rich black cherry, the whole accented throughout by firm oak and cigar box.
This is dominated by oak and oak-driven aromas that include roasted coffee bean, espresso, coconut and vanilla that carry over to the palate, together with plum and chocolate. Astringent, drying tannins give it a rather abrupt finish.
Building on 150 years and six generations of winemaking tradition, the winery trends toward a leaner style, with the classic California buttercream aroma cut by tart green apple. In this good everyday sipping wine, flavors that range from pear to barely ripe pineapple prove approachable but not distinctive.
Zesty orange peels and apple notes abound in this sprightly, mineral-toned Riesling. Off dry on the palate, yet racy and lean, it's a refreshing, easy quaffer with wide appeal.
Baked plum, molasses, balsamic vinegar and cheesy oak aromas feed into a palate that's braced by a bolt of acidity. A compact set of saucy red-berry and plum flavors features tobacco and peppery accents, while the finish is mildly green in flavor, with respectable weight and balance.
Raw black-cherry aromas are direct and simple but good. This has a juicy feel that thickens over time, with oak character and extract becoming more apparent. A flavor profile driven by dark-berry fruits and smoldering oak finishes meaty but hot.
Desiccated blackberry, leather, charred wood and mint aromas carry the nose on this full-bodied, tannic, heavily oaked Tinto Fino. Flavors of clove and woodspice sit on top of blackberry fruit, then hickory and other forceful oak-based aromas rise up and dominate the finish.
Red fruit aromas pervade on the nose, with cigar box and menthol notes riding in the back. The palate is slightly restrained on entry, but opens up to riper notes of cherry and plum specked with crushed pepper. This blend of Merlot, Cabernet Sauvignon and Cabernet Franc is approachable now and ready to be enjoyed.
Ripe aromas of dark berries mingle with ample notes of black pepper, toasted vanilla and dusty tobacco. The palate is oak-driven in nature, but notes of tart red currant shine through, offering a bit of levity.
A sleek mix of tart berry, stem and herb, along with a hint of oak and chocolate, this is a fair value in a widely available, drink-now Oregon Pinot. The wine oak-aged for six months, whether in neutral or re-staved is not indicated.
Delicate aromas recall white flower and citrus. The palate offers passion fruit, lime and white peach with a hint of mineral alongside bright acidity.
This wine from the Geneseo district offers aromas of sour plums and just enough cigar box to tempt the nose. The flavors are a bit flat at first, then the acidity and tension of sour cherries emerges in the midpalate, bolstered by some black licorice.
Aromas of prune, blackcurrant, toast and oak carry through to the extracted palate, along with flavors of black cherry and roasted coffee beans. Firm but drying tannins provide the framework.
Oak and earth intermingle around robust aromas of wet forest floor in this vineyard-designated Pinot that hails from a high-elevation site. Small in production, it offers intense, full-bodied raspberry and blackberry steeped in smoky spice and smooth texture.
Pretty aromas of yellow flower and stone fruit lead the nose. The bright palate offers yellow apple, apricot, vanilla and delicate notes of lightly toasted oak alongside crisp acidity.
Aromas recall ripe dark berry, toast and a whiff of cake spice. The soft, informal palate offers sour cherry, vanilla and a hint of espresso alongside round tannins. Drink soon.
Aromas suggest mature berry, scorched earth, animal, toast and anise. The palate offers ripe black berry, oak, espresso, cocoa and vanilla alongside dusty tannins.
Clarksburg is becoming a haven for Chenin Blanc in California. This bottling, using fruit sourced from several vineyards in the area, is balanced with just a trace of sweetness in the background (1% residual sugar). This is crisp, straightforward and blessed with notes of pear and lime. Drink it cold.
Red cherry fruit comes laced with light tannins, giving this bright wine an open, juicy character.
Merlot and Nero d'Avola form the base for this easy red wine that would pair with fettuccine and meat sauce or pork roast. The quality of the fruit is clean, bright and sharp.
Part of the extended Calanìca series, this Grillo-Viognier blend shows aromas of honeysuckle and jasmine, backed by touches of cut grass and wild sage. In the mouth, it shows ripe yellow-fruit flavors.
Rustic and dry, this has flavors of berries, currants, licorice and spices. Made from Cabernet Franc and Cabernet Sauvignon.
This shows a tart, green gooseberry flavor that is similar to New Zealand Sauvignon Blanc. Other notes include tropical fruit, orange and honey. Unoaked, with a splash of Muscat, this has commendable dryness and acidity.
As with many of the Erath 2010 vineyard designates, this is strongly herbal. The notes of leaf and herb create somewhat unripe flavor impressions, with a touch of bitterness on the finish. The fruit just passes the ripeness of sweet tomatoes.
White flower, lychee and apple aromas carry the mellow bouquet. The chunky-feeling palate bears powdery, sweet flavors of peach and melon, mixed with greener notes of grass and lime. The 80% Viognier component is typical of the warm climate: plump and oily, with a short finish. Chardonnay fills out the blend.
This concentrated Cabernet offers aromas of cured meat, dried fruit and rosemary. Barbecue spice and teriyaki sauce flavors give the wine a bold, chewy feel.
Inky in color, this wine has plump aromas of ripe fruit, blackberry jam and rum cake. On the palate, it is soft and smooth.
Part of the natural wine movement, this wine is made from organic grapes, and the label is printed with vegetable ink on recycled paper. The quality of fruit is very nice, with a juicy palate and a bright berry flavor on the finish.
Catarratto is one of Sicily's most widely farmed white grape varieties. This expression shows a mineral note, backed by citrus and almond blossom touches.
A stiff, tannic wine, this slowly opens and brings brambly berry flavors into play, along with notes of earthy herbs. There's a touch of bitterness to the tannins.
This is a festive wine, with soft, ripe fruit and acidity, plus a red berry flavor.
The clean, brisk mouthfeel gives this slightly oaked Sauvignon Blanc instant likeability. It's dry with a rich streak of honey that sweetens the citrus, pear and tropical fruit flavors. Pair this with Asian fare, ham or a green salad with grapefruit sections.
A berry aroma comes with cola and herb notes. The palate is tangy and racy, and it delivers raspberry and plum flavors, with a modest finish.
Right out of the starting blocks this is an oaky wine, dripping with caramel and vanilla notes. The texture on the midpalate is finessed and graceful, with drying tannins that latch onto the oak-driven finish. An eccentric blend of 50% Tannat, 35% Petit Verdot and 15% Pinotage.
Spicy, fresh and clean, this would pair with fried seafood or spaghetti con vongole. It offers pretty citrus tones followed by a drying mineral nuance.
This is a sweet wine with flavors of white sugar, orange, honey and vanilla, all brightened by crisp acidity.
This bottling resembles the New Zealand paradigm of Sauvignon Blanc, bearing aromas of grapefruit, passion fruit and kiwi; a sprinkling of graham cracker adds interest. The wine hits the palate like a fleshy fist, with an intense, grassy gooseberry flavor that provides plenty of punch. Pair with apricot-glazed roasted chicken.
Soft and fruity, this is a generous, ripe wine that's full of juicy red-cherry fruits and gentle tannins. It has some richness, giving a sweet character to this open, ready-to-drink wine.
This blend of Nero d'Avola and Syrah opens with savory aromas of cured meat, dried berry, cassis, tobacco and wet earth. There's a touch of almond bitterness on the finish.
This is much different than Casa Silva's 2009 Petit Verdot, which was tasted in the same flight. The '08 is more hard, spicy and tarry, with a leafy, herbal aroma, plus some grittiness. The palate feels snappy, with a can't-miss saltiness. The finish is long in length but short on fruit, with a raw feel.
The Monica grape often shows a rustic or raw quality, with aromas of cherry cola, black pepper and sour fruit. This expression does just that, with an added touch of bright acidity on the finish.
Fruity and lightly herbaceous, this has fine textured acidity along with a pink grapefruit flavor. The wine is bright and easy, and it will be ready to drink in a few months.
A blend of Nero d'Avola and Nerello Mascalese, this delivers forest berry and cola, with blue flower and dusty mineral accents. The palate is easy, bright and lean.
This shows jelly-like flavors of orange and pear, with some earthy tones. The mouthfeel is soft and there's a bounty of oak in the form of buttered toast and caramel notes.
This is weighty, creamy and medium to full in body. It has plenty of lime and pear flavors, plus slight brown sugar and vanilla notes.
There's a touch of toasted almond at the start, but then this Grillo revs up in the glass to deliver notes of citrus, stone fruit, crushed stone and lemon tart. The mouthfeel is crisp and simple.
Lightly herbal strawberry and raspberry aromas are authentic and fresh. On the palate, this is light and juicy, with snappy, lean flavors of red fruit and dry spice. The finish is dry and oaky.
Aromas of cranberry, barrel spice and herb are followed by tart cranberry flavors with grainy tannins. It falls a bit flat and the variety seems hard to discern.
Syrupy and dense, this wine is jammy in plum and vanilla, with indeterminate structure and plenty of oak. Ripe and full-bodied, it has accents of graphite and leather.
This densely hued wine has aromas of black plum and vanilla that carry over to the simple palate along with a touch of cedar. Pliant tannins give it an easygoing nature. Drink soon.
The aromas are brooding, with notes of barrel spice and cherry. The flavors are tart and elegant in style, with lightly gritty tannins backing them up. Best suited to the dinner table.
This fat, yeasty Champagne is comprised predominantly of Pinot Noir. It has ripe red berry fruit, light acidity and a soft, creamy aftertaste. It's ready to drink.
There are intriguing touches to the nose of this bottling, with jasmine, sea salt, wet hay, quinine and rainy sidewalk. The structure on the sip is quite delicate, with golden apple and honey flavors.
From the warm 2015 vintage, this is a soft and fruity wine. It's open with broad white fruit flavors, the acidity lighter than usual for Chablis, giving it a particularly ripe character. Drink now.
This soft, rounded wine is ripe with generous pear and melon flavors. It's easy and ready to drink young for its smooth, attractively ripe character.
A blend of Merlot and Cabernet Franc, this wine brings disjointed lightly volatile aromas of wood spice, vanilla and cherry. The plump cherry flavors are rounded out by woody barrel notes.
Very deep in color and spicy-smoky in flavor, this full-bodied wine is packed with dark-fruit flavors like blackberry and blueberry. Aromas like grilled beef and spicy flavors like cardamom and smoke give it a bold character that's hard to deny.
This cooperative, based in Aÿ, has benefited from the fine Pinot Noir in the village to produce a ripe red fruited wine. With balanced acidity and a soft aftertaste, it is ready to drink.
Aromas of vanilla, char and toast lead to light creamy stone fruit and canned-corn flavors. It provides appeal but the oak seems overweighted.
Big oak defines this robustly dense and extracted red, swimming in vanilla and cherry flavor. Full-bodied and gravelly in texture, it's a rustically pleasant wine for pizza nights and crowds.
Aromas of black-skinned fruit, leather, underbrush, game and a briny note all carry over to the lean, somewhat disjointed palate along with suggestions of licorice and raw red cherry. Grainy tannins leave a drying finish.
Juicy plum, raspberry and pencil lead lead the way in this vineyard designate, a site that's 2,000 feet high. Tobacco and cedar meet a full-bodied hit of oak and puckering tannin, the wine still youthfully wrapped in its full-bodied boldness.
This is the producer's first release of this wine. Fruity aromas of plum and tart cranberry add to its overall sense of lightness and understatement.
This is made from equal parts Cabernet Franc and Merlot, with small additions of Malbec. Juicy, it reveals a raisiny quality of ripeness around integrated oak and generous tannin.
Earthy pollen and mineral notes lend a savory tone to this medium-sweet Riesling. It's soft and slightly pulpy, intensified by overripe tangerine and stone fruit flavors. Drink now through 2018.
This medium-bodied Chardonnay features aromas of pineapple and roasted cashew. Similar notes of ripe pineapple and nuts mark the palate, then ease to a rather soft, easy finish. Drink now.
Some rosés are made simply by bleeding the juice from the fermenter, to concentrate the remaining wine. Whether or not that is the case here, the wine has the simple pleasant lightly candied strawberry flavors one might expect from such a technique. It's fruity and undemanding. Drink up.
Grown on the sandy soil of Tejo, the wine is typically soft and open. It is very accessible—with black fruits and light tannins for this grape. It is ready to drink.
Caramelized oak and vanilla aromas are front and center on a barrel-heavy nose. This feels a bit choppy, with astringent tannins. Herbal salty plum flavors wear a lot of oaky makeup, while this finishes with a forced woody flavor.
Bland, mature aromas of white fruits are on the weak side for Albariño. This feels round and oily, while briny leesy flavors lack pop and precision. A grabby aged finish is short on the free flow that this grape and region are known for. Drink immediately or wait for a newer vintage.
This fruity, sweet wine is immediately attractive and ripe. With its great apricot and pineapple fruit, hints of spicy wood and balancing acidity, it's perfect as an apéritif—light and refreshing. Drink now.
Pale copper in hue, this wine exudes passion fruit on the nose, while the palate delivers nuances of muskmelon as well. It's crisp, racy and medium in body, perfectly suited to summertime refreshment. Drink now.
A healthy addition of 13% Petite Sirah provides added weight and intensity to this wine, a soft, supple and richly conceived combination of smoky black fruit and mocha.
Pronounced dust, pollen and earth tones lend savoriness to this otherwise citrusy wine. Racy acidity and fresh tangerine and lemon flavors turn herbal on the finish. Drink now.
Vibrant aromas of ripe pear, white flowers and melon are followed by a just off-dry palate, with lean fruit flavors.
Softened tannins surround a light-bodied, lean and herbal approach to this vineyard-designate, dotted in black pepper, leather and baked cherry.
Subdued aromas of French oak, toast and acacia waft out of the glass. The rather lean palate offers oak-driven spice, chopped herb and a hint of citrus set against racy acidity. It's rather shy on fruit richness.
Made primarily from Sangiovese, with some Malvasia and other white grapes, this offers aromas of red berry and a yeasty whiff of bread dough. The bright, enjoyable palate offers ripe cherry and hint of pastry cream while a note of honeydew melon marks the close.
This blend of Sangiovese, Malbec, Cabernet Sauvignon, Petite Sirah and other varieties plays well to type. It shows a wealth of ripe, dusty black fruit that's richly round and soft on the palate, approachable and lightly oaked.
This wine has a touch of perceptible sweetness on its tropical nose, yet tastes dry, showing a straightforward approach to this crisp, coastal-grown variety. Apricot, melon and guava wrap around a lightness of body and texture.
All red Bordeaux varieties are represented in this blend, except for Petit Verdot. Together, they offer a simple tannic structure that strengthens a chewiness of leather, tobacco and a touch of cedar. Full bodied, it's a ripe, bold and brawny wine.
Freshness characterizes the nose: green pear, ivy leaves and citrus notes play on nose and palate. This is light footed, easy drinking and charming. Drink soon while flavors are fresh.
Barrel notes are prominent, with aromas of Creamsicle and baking spice. The palate is broad and dry with stone-fruit and barrel flavors. It provides intrigue but the wood seems to get in the way at times.
This is a dense wine, packed with both tannins and acidity. It brings out the ageworthiness of this appellation with its rich potential and dark mineral texture. Drink this concentrated cru wine from 2018.
The wine comes from one of the cru estates followed by this negociant house. It is a light, ripe and fruity wine. With its attractive red-berry flavors, finished with crisp acidity, it is accessible and ready to drink.
A wisp of bramble extends a savory tone from nose to finish on this otherwise bright bristling wine. Delicate honey tones register as off dry on the palate but balance neatly alongside flavors of freshly pressed apples and pears. The finish is marked by a touch of pencil lead. Drink now through 2020.
Forest floor, menthol, espresso, cranberry and pressed violet aromas take shape in the glass. The lean linear palate shows dried sour cherry, licorice and coffee bean alongside assertive close-grained tannins. Even though the tannins are still firm, drink sooner rather than later to capture the remaining fruit.
This blends 20% each of all five red-Bordeaux varieties, showing grapy, plummy flavor that's juicy and soft on the palate. With a core of tobacco, tar and graphite, it complements the fruity with the savory, ending simply and elegantly.
